retarded ignition = high EGTs, low chance of detonation (because peak pressure point occurs after TDC, right?)

leaner fuel-air ratio, higher EGTs, peak pressure retarded, but does peak pressure then get closer to TDC LOP? or do EGTs fall because of loss of power?

will lowering RPM give more time to extract from each combustion event, hence lowering EGTs, and advancing the pressure point to be closer to TDC?

so i’m theory, if i lean the Dakota out, but also slow the engine down to 2000rpm, so long as there’s no vibration, CHTs and EGTs should both be low and we should be good to go?

what about full rich? what does running too rich do? running too lean doesn’t do anything, right? it’s just temperatures? 

if the Lance is altitude compensating, then I’d need to adjust fuel air ratio, and fuel flow would change. Fuel flow would also change with throttle.

my strategy: fly an airspeed, as close to WOT/low RPM/LOP without allowing CHTs to exceed 380

Mike Busch, they can run mildly lean of peak, they have decent mixture distribution, and that’s a good place for them, so long as they’re smooth. And I’ve been able to do that Jim

Mike Busch says that engine manufacture guidelines are predicated on ROP operation–LOP you can go even FURTHER over square

Mike Busch says to use a partial bit of carb heat, warm the air, improves atomization of fuel

Instead of operating at absolute, WOT, pull back until the very first slight indication of a reduction in MAP. Cock throttle butterfly, just enough, to cause turbulence as air is going through the carberuator. Little turbulence, little heat, considerable difference. Still not great, but it improves it enough to operate leaner.

Operating oversquare would help ensure CHTs stay low, but you really should have an engine monitor.

oversquare / LOP independent

octane is a measure of the detonation resistance of the fuel

am i actually making the peak pressure occur closer to TDC? if i lower RPM at best  power, for example?

EGT is mean exhaust manifold temperature, 2” from the valve or so

will LOP EGTs be higher if i don’t lower RPM due to fixed time magnetos?

temperature of the EGT probe itself 

lance compressions:

1 — 70
2 — 70
3 — 71
4 — 70.5
5 — 76
6 — 77
