You'd increase RPM first and then increase manifold pressure. This is to avoid operating the engine oversquare–that is, with manifold pressure (in inches) greater than the rpm (divided by 100). In the case of take off or a climb, that'd be the same as trying to get your car to climb up a hill in 6th gear (this can cause catastrophic damage).

However, at all other times, we actually want to operate the engine as far oversquare as the book allows. Low rpm gives the engine the most time to extract as much energy as possible from each combustion event before the exhaust valve opens and discards what’s left.  In combination with wide open throttle (I discuss this in question 5), low rpm is extremely efficient for the engine. Also, low rpm increases propellor efficiency since it increases the angle of attack of the propellor blades. And, finally, low rpm dramatically reduces frictional losses in the engine, which vary with the square of rpm.

Rather than mixing the fuel and air before the mixture enters the intake manifold, fuel injected systems mix the fuel and air immediately before entry into each cylinder, or sometimes, they inject fuel directly into each cylinder.

My knowledge and time spent thinking about fuel injected systems is definitely lacking (I wish I was rich). However, they usually incorporate a few basic components: an electric fuel pump, an engine-driven fuel pump, a fuel-air control unit, a fuel distributor, and fuel lines that lead to discharge nozzles on each cylinder.

The electric fuel pump is useful for emergencies, but also for "priming" the fuel-air control unit to start the engine. This control unit has a similar job to the carburetor, which is to meter fuel based on the mixture control and send it to the fuel distributor at a rate controlled by the throttle.

After reaching the fuel distributor, the fuel is distributed to the individual discharge nozzles. The discharge nozzles, which are usually located in each cylinder head, inject the fuel-air mixture right above the intake valve, in an area known as the intake port.
I found an interesting article that goes into much more detail than the PHAK does for fuel injection: https://www.flight-mechanic.com/fuel-injection-systems-part-three/. An interesting thing I'd like to do more research on is the distinction between abstract concept of the fuel-air control unit creating a "mixture" vs. what it actually does: controling the engine air intake thing 1), and setting fuel pressure as thing 2). Does the engine air make it to the intake port separately from the fuel? The PHAK makes it seem like it does, since it says the "fuel-air mixture is injected," but these diagrams make it seem like the fuel lines are a distinct thing from the air flow, which makes more sense.

I wish I could go down the rabbit hole, but I have other things I need to do, so another time.