Because we’re extracting as much energy possible from each combustion event, our cylinders  waste we’re throwing out of the engine in the power cycle.

latent energy was wasted, and substantially less was being converted into mechanical energy and airspeed. 

The gauge measures the absolute pressure of the fuel-air mixture inside the intake manifold. At a constant rpm and altitude, the amount of power produced is directly related to the fuel-air mixture being delivered to the combustion chamber.

A carburetor is an induction system. An induction system mixes outside air with fuel and delivers the fuel-air mixture to the cylinders where combustion occurs.
At a high level, there are two chambers in a carburetor. The first chamber has an air inlet and a fuel discharge nozzle– this is where the actual mixing of fuel and air occurs. The shape of the first chamber, or the venturi, creates an area of low pressure that draws fuel from the discharge nozzle.
Inside the second chamber, or the float chamber, there is a fuel inlet. The level of the fuel in this chamber is regulated by a floating ball that closes the fuel inlet when the chamber fills up above half way. There is a needle, controlled by the mixture control, that adjusts how much fuel goes to the discharge nozzle.
Back inside the first chamber, there is a throttle valve that actually controls the amount of the total fuel-air mixture that is routed to the combustion chambers.
Also, an interesting thought: our piston engines are most efficient at wide open throttle (WOT). Pulling the throttle from its wide-open position closes the throttle valve in the carburetor and chokes off the engine's air supply, intentionally reducing its volumetric efficiency. 

Essentially, you want the most amount of air in the cylinder during the intake stroke, so the engine is making the most out of an operating cycle. This is because, the more air we can get inside the combustion chamber, the more fuel we can burn, the higher the output of the power stroke, and the less latent energy we waste web the exhaust valve opens and discards what’s left. 

Could you operate at maximum efficiency if someone was trying to strangle you? Neither can your engine.
